---
title: "Civic Switchboard Wrap-Up"
excerpt: "Take Aways from the Civic Switchboard Evaluator"
permalink: /post_21/
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/hitchcock.jpeg
  overlay_image: /assets/images/hitchcock.jpeg
  overlay_filter: 0.5
  caption: "Orra White Hitchcock drawing of strata near Valenciennes. Courtesy of Amherst College Archives & Special Collections"
show_overlay_excerpt: false
---



I joined the Civic Switchboard team in February 2020 in the role of project evaluator. I am an independent consultant, longtime collaborator with the National Neighborhood Indicators Partnership, and also a frequent collaborator with libraries. I am passionate about using the tools of evaluation to support projects like Civic Switchboard. 

The evaluation work I led and facilitated had three focus areas. The first was creating a logic model that would help the Civic Switchboard team better understand the outcomes associated with their work. There are separate blogs discussing the other two focus areas of this evaluation – documenting the work in Civic Switchboard field projects and supporting planning the future of Civic Switchboard. 

The logic model developed for Civic Switchboard can be accessed here, along with an accompanying overview document here. What will likely be most interesting to libraries is the logic model’s mapping of library activities that influence local civic data outcomes. The outcomes included on the logic model can be used by libraries to describe and measure why their civic data work is important. 

In addition, this logic model includes an outline of Civic Switchboard’s activities and outcomes, from the perspective of Civic Switchboard as a national initiative that is working to increase support in the library field for libraries to adopt roles in their local civic data ecosystems.
